Notes-project54-ngs.txt

</entry>



<entry [Fri Dec  3 11:42:49 EST 2010] REPORT DRAFT>










MIAME 2.0 FORMAT
http://www.mged.org/Workgroups/MIAME/miame_2.0.html

Minimum Information About a Microarray Experiment - MIAME 2.0

The six following elements must be provided to support microarray based publications.

The raw data for each hybridisation.

The raw data are defined as data files produced by the microarray image analysis software, such as CEL files for Affymetrix or GPR files for GenePix. These files should be provided in the native formats and should match their respective array designs.

The final processed data for the set of hybridisations in the experiment (study)
The processed data is defined as the normalised and/or summarized data on which the conclusions in the related publication are based. For instance, these can be MAS5 or RMA normalised data matrices for Affymetrix data. In gene expression experiments the final processed data is typically a matrix of genes and experimental conditions characterizing the expression of each gene under each condition. The identifiers used in these processed data files should match the array annotation or locations on the arrays.

The essential sample annotation, including experimental factors and their values
Experimental factors (conditions) and their values are the most essential information about the samples used in the experiment. The experimental factors are the key experimental variables in the experiment, for instance "time" in time series experiments, "dose" in dose response experiments, "compound" in compound treatment experiments, or "disease state" (normal or otherwise) in disease studies. The same experiment may have several experimental factors, for example, compound, dose and time may all be experimental factors in a dose response experiment in which several compounds are used to treat samples over a time course. In addition to experimental factor values, additional sample information that is required to interpret the experiment must be given, for instance, the organism and organism part from which the sample has been taken.

The experiment design including sample data relationships
The purpose of the experimental design description is simply to specify the essential relationships between different biomaterials, such as samples and arrays, and the data files which are produced in each hybridisation. In a simple one channel one sample - one array experiment, this may be a table listing all samples and the respective raw data files. If relevant, it is important to show which hybridisations in the experiment are replicates, and which are technical and which are biological replicates. More generally, the experimental design can be described as a graph where nodes represent biomaterials (e.g., samples or their sources) and data objects (e.g., files), and edges or arrows show their relationships. MAGE-TAB provides a simple format to encode such graphs.

Sufficient annotation of the array design
Essential array design information is the reporter (probe) sequence information and/or the database accession numbers that characterise a sequence. For synthetic oligonucleotides the precise DNA sequence must be given. For commercial or other standard array platforms this information is typically provided by the array vendors or manufacturers.

Essential experimental and data processing protocols
The essential laboratory and data processing protocols are usually described in the journal methods section. It is sufficient to simply reference the standard experimental or data processing protocols, such as MAS5 or RMA. However, if a protocol depends on parameters that can be varied, their values should be provided. If novel or non-standard data processing protocols are used, these should be described in sufficient detail to allow the user to understand what exactly has been done in the experiment and how the data have been analysed to reach the conclusions of the study.




MIAMI WORKGROUPS
http://www.mged.org/Workgroups/MIAME/miame.html


Physiol. Genomics 13: 1-2, 2003; doi:10.1152/physiolgenomics.00019.2003 
Editorial
Our new requirement for MIAME standards
http://physiolgenomics.physiology.org/cgi/content/full/13/1/1


WRITE IN MAGE-TAB FORMAT
http://www.mged.org/mage-tab/

Rayner, 2006.	A simple spreadsheet-based, MIAME-supportive format for microarray data: MAGE-TAB
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1687205/

The MAGE-TAB specification defines four different types of files to fully describe a microarray investigation:

1. Investigation Description Format (IDF) – a tab-delimited file providing general information about the investigation, including its name, a brief description, the investigator's contact details, bibliographic references, and free text descriptions of the protocols used in the investigation.

2. Array Design Format (ADF) – a tab-delimited file defining each array type used. An ADF file describes the design of an array, e.g., what sequence is located at each position on an array and what the annotation of this sequence is. If the investigation uses arrays for which a description has been previously provided, cross-references to entries in a public repository (e.g., an ArrayExpress accession number [3]) can be included instead of explicit array descriptions.

3. Sample and Data Relationship Format (SDRF) – a tab-delimited file (or files) describing the relationships between samples, arrays, data, and other objects used or produced in the investigation, and providing all MIAME information that is not provided elsewhere. This is often the least trivial part of the experiment description due to the complex relationships which are possible between samples and their respective hybridizations; however, for simple experimental designs, constructing the SDRF file is straightforward, and even complex loop designs can be expressed in this format.

4. Raw and processed data files – ASCII or binary files, typically in their native formats; alternatively, data may also be provided in a specially defined tab-delimited format termed a "data matrix", described below.





</entry>



<entry [Thu Dec  2 11:42:49 EST 2010] NOELIA MESSAGE RE REPORT>




Sorry, forgot to attach my comments. 


From: Kunzevitzky, Noelia 
Sent: Thursday, December 02, 2010 11:27 AM
To: Young, Stuart
Cc: Zysman, Joel
Subject: RE: Genomics Pipeline + report template

Thanks, Stuart. Great job. I just went through the slides and I added some comments in blue to #6, 7 and 8. 

Camilo’s sample report is not uploaded to the wiki yet, but you can still go ahead and start working to generate parts of yours and we’ll go from there. 

You have described that the deliverables would be a combination of a summary report, spreadsheets and images, right? You can start by collecting sample spreadsheets and screenshots, and by writing a sample report as well. Basically, the sample report should spell out in a very detailed manner what you did from beginning to end (e.g..: Brief description of the experiment; Detailed Methods (including QA/QC controls, filtering, trimming, etc); a description of the Results, and a link to the images and spreadsheets that supplement such description; Conclusions). 


The report will be ultimately read by a PI, and he or she will most likely  take chunks of it to put into grants/papers. So the language needs to be clear and details (you can include a mock example) are essential.  


Please take a look at this website:


http://www.softgenetics.com/SNPWaveApplicationNote.pdf 

There are a few screenshots that can be used as an example of what the PI will want to see in the report. You will most likely have your own screenshots/summary graphs, but you get the idea… 

As soon as you have all (or some) of the above ready, we can put all the bits and pieces together and finish the sample report. Let me know when you are ready so we can meet and move forward with the creation of the sample report. 

Thanks!
Noelia


From: Young, Stuart 
Sent: Thursday, December 02, 2010 10:31 AM
To: Kunzevitzky, Noelia
Subject: Genomics Pipeline + report template

Hi Noelia,

I put up a new version of the Genomics Pipeline on the wiki. Let me know if there’s anything that’s not clear. 

I can’t find Camilo’s report on the wiki. Could you please send me the URL or a copy of it so I can use it as a template?

Cheers,

Stuart



</entry>



<entry [Tue Nov 30 14:55:20 EST 2010] GENOMICS PIPELINE SNP PREDICTION >




USES samtools pileup DEFAULT ARGUMENTS:

        -f FILE   reference sequence file is in FASTA format
        -c        output the SOAPsnp consensus sequence
        -v        print variants only (for -c)

NB:

USE -A TO USE MAQ CONSENSUS ALGORITHM

USE -c TO USE SOAPsnp CONSENSUS ALGORITHM

http://soap.genomics.org.cn/soapsnp.html
SOAPsnp uses a method based on Bayes’ theorem (the reverse probability model) to call consensus genotype by carefully considering the data quality, alignment, and recurring experimental errors. All these kinds of information was integrated into a single quality score for each base in PHRED scale to measure the accuracy of consensus calling. Currently, it supports the alignment format of SOAPaligner.



