Notes-workflow-nextgen.txt


Nature Methods - 5, 585 - 587 (2008)
doi:10.1038/nmeth0708-585
The beginning of the end for microarrays?

Jay Shendure

How do we compare the various reports on shotgun transcriptome sequencing to one another? The sequencing platforms of Applied Biosystems and Illumina are conceptually related, and currently offer approximately similar read lengths, error rates and per-tag costs. The more pertinent distinctions are in the shotgun library construction protocols and in the data analysis. For example, protocols used by Grimmond and colleages1 and in the previous report in plants4 retain information about transcript directionality, useful for annotation and necessary for identifying overlapping antisense transcription, whereas this is not the case in the approach of Wold and colleagues (Fig. 1). Also, all groups1, 2, 4, 5, 6 observe substantial unevenness in coverage across the length of any given transcript, potentially resulting from RNA secondary structure or priming bias. The Wold group2 does a nice job of recognizing and quantifying this problem, and then demonstrates that interventions such as RNA fragmentation can substantially mitigate it. Additional optimization and direct comparison of the various protocols will be helpful in bringing us closer to the goal of truly unbiased transcriptome profiles.




Nature Methods - 5, 621 - 628 (2008)
Published online: 30 May 2008; | doi:10.1038/nmeth.1226
Mapping and quantifying mammalian transcriptomes by RNA-Seq

Ali Mortazavi1, 2, Brian A Williams1, 2, Kenneth McCue1, Lorian Schaeffer1 & Barbara Wold1

1 Division of Biology, MC 156-29, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

2 These authors contributed equally to this work.
Correspondence should be addressed to Barbara Wold woldb@caltech.edu
We have mapped and quantified mouse transcriptomes by deeply sequencing them and recording how frequently each gene is represented in the sequence sample (RNA-Seq). This provides a digital measure of the presence and prevalence of transcripts from known and previously unknown genes. We report reference measurements composed of 41–52 million mapped 25-base-pair reads for poly(A)-selected RNA from adult mouse brain, liver and skeletal muscle tissues. We used RNA standards to quantify transcript prevalence and to test the linear range of transcript detection, which spanned five orders of magnitude. Although >90% of uniquely mapped reads fell within known  exons, the remaining data suggest new and revised gene models, including changed or additional promoters, exons and 3' untranscribed regions, as well as new candidate microRNA precursors. RNA splice events, which are not readily measured by standard gene expression microarray or serial analysis of gene expression methods, were detected directly by mapping splice-crossing sequence reads. We observed 1.45 times 105 distinct splices, and alternative splices were prominent, with 3,500 different genes expressing one or more alternate internal splices.

